First draft documentation for bearer access (#1078)
surrealdb/docs.surrealdb.com: src/content/doc-surrealql/statements/access.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 0
sidebar_label: ACCESS 
title: ACCESS statement | SurrealQL
description: The ACCESS statement can be used to manage access grants.
---

import Since from '@components/shared/Since.astro'

# `ACCESS` statement

<Since v="v2.2.0" />

> [!CAUTION]

> > Currently, the `ACCESS` statement is an experimental feature intended to be used for validating its suitability and security. As such, it may be subject to breaking changes and may present unidentified security issues. Do not rely on this feature in production applications. To enable this and other experimental features related to bearer access, set the `SURREAL_EXPERIMENTAL_BEARER_ACCESS` environment variable to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Currently, the `ACCESS` statement is an experimental feature intended to be used for validating its suitability and security. As such, it may be subject to breaking changes and may present unidentified security issues. Do not rely on this feature in production applications. To enable this and other experimental features related to bearer access, set the `SURREAL_EXPERIMENTAL_BEARER_ACCESS` [environment variable](/docs/surrealdb/cli/env) to `true`.
```

}
-- Query 5
{
        ac: 'api',
        creation: d'2024-12-17T10:42:35.043162877Z',
        expiration: d'2024-12-27T10:42:35.043164533Z',
        grant: {
                id: 'RFilJMRp9lZi',
                key: 'surreal-bearer-RFilJMRp9lZi-OmflYxXwikDAvm8CNpsWYxd6'
        },
        id: 'RFilJMRp9lZi',
        revocation: NONE,
        subject: {
                record: user:2
        },
        type: 'bearer'
}
```

```surql
ACCESS api REVOKE WHERE subject.record.name = "tobie";
```

```surql title="Response"
[
        [
                {
                        ac: 'api',
                        creation: d'2024-12-17T10:42:35.040901759Z',
                        expiration: d'2024-12-27T10:42:35.040903414Z',
                        grant: {
                                id: 'mjSACes6sej4',
                                key: '[REDACTED]'
                        },
                        id: 'mjSACes6sej4',
                        revocation: d'2024-12-17T10:43:23.944198560Z',
                        subject: {
                                record: user:1
                        },
                        type: 'bearer'
                }
        ]
]
```

## `PURGE`

> The `PURGE` clause completely removes grants created with a specific access method that have already been expired or revoked. In scenarios with very large amount of grants associated with an access method (e.g. when grants are automatically generated), purging inactive grants can improve the performance and experience of auditing grants with the `SHOW` clause. In some very high volume scenarios where grants are created by the hundreds of millions, purging may be bnecessary to limit the probability of collisions resulting in failure to create new grants. Note that the performance cost of validating a grant is independent from the number of existing grants, regardless of whether they are active on inactive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `PURGE` clause completely removes grants created with a specific access method that have already been expired or revoked. In scenarios with very large amount of grants associated with an access method (e.g. when grants are automatically generated), purging inactive grants can improve the performance and experience of auditing grants with the `SHOW` clause. In some very high volume scenarios where grants are created by the hundreds of millions, purging may be necessary to limit the probability of collisions resulting in failure to create new grants. Note that the performance cost of validating a grant is independent from the number of existing grants, regardless of whether they are active or inactive.
```
